CREDITS.md, before:

## Licenses and Credits

The majority of code in this repository comes from these [turtlebot3](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/turtlebot3.git) and [turtlebot3_simulations](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/turtlebot3_simulations) repositories (in `humble-devel` branch) with [*Apache-2.0 license*](LICENSE) and we continue using the same license:

The Turtlebot3 robot project belongs to [robotis.com](http://turtlebot3.robotis.com) and accessible in [git repository](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/). The authors and maintainers of the original packages that all credits go to are:

- [Darby Lim](thlim@robotis.com)
- [Pyo](pyo@robotis.com)
- [Will Son](willson@robotis.com)
- Ryan Shim

In October 2023, [Hamid Ebadi](hamid.ebadi@gmail.com) renamed the [package owner information and name](package.xml) for turtlebot3 projects to avoid dependency issues any nam ing confusion with the original packages and created independent packages for activities within the research project.

We also got inspired and used the skeleton code from these open source project and courses:
- https://github.com/ros-controls/gazebo_ros2_control
- https://github.com/renan028/forklift_robot
- https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/
- http://turtlebot3.robotis.com
- [Articulated Robotics](https://www.youtube.com/@ArticulatedRobotics)
- ["ROS2 for Beginners Level 2 - TF | URDF | RViz | Gazebo" Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo/)
- ["ROS2 Nav2 [Navigation 2 Stack] - with SLAM and Navigation" Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo/)
- [Visual Servoing in Gazebo grobot](https://github.com/nlamprian/grobot)

## Resources

- [Gazebo official video playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=48TX-XJ14Gs&list=PL6FI-gIL5jiEd4Hv-NIAuO2Cbbs27UpAM&index=1)
- [Getting Ready to Build Robots with ROS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2lIV3dRvHmQ&list=PLunhqkrRNRhYYCaSTVP-qJnyUPkTxJnBt)
- [Udemy course on ROS2 and Gazebo](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo)
- [classcentral course](https://www.classcentral.com/course/youtube-simulating-robots-with-gazebo-and-ros-getting-ready-to-build-robots-with-ros-8-153333)
- [theconstructsim course](https://www.theconstructsim.com/robotigniteacademy_learnros/ros-courses-library/mastering-gazebo-simulator-online-course/)
- [Articulated Robotics](https://articulatedrobotics.xyz/)
- [ROS URDF](http://wiki.ros.org/urdf/XML)
- [FoxGlove studio (rviz alternative)](https://studio.foxglove.dev)
- [ROS2 Tutorials](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Tutorials.html)
- [aws-robomaker](https://github.com/aws-robotics/aws-robomaker-small-warehouse-world)
- [model for factory](https://app.gazebosim.org/OpenRobotics/fuel/models/Mecanum%20lift)
- [Tugbot in Warehouse](https://app.gazebosim.org/Kavya/fuel/worlds/Tugbot%20in%20Warehouse)
- [logistics in warehouse](https://github.com/belal-ibrahim/dynamic_logistics_warehouse)
- [aws-robomaker](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/robotics/fleet-and-multi-robot-simulations-in-aws-robomaker)
- [gazebo_worlds](https://dev.px4.io/v1.11_noredirect/en/simulation/gazebo_worlds.html#warehouse)
- [warehouse](https://app.gazebosim.org/MovAi)
- [forklift](https://github.com/renan028/forklift_robot)
- [Docker install guide](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

Other solutions:
- [Kollmorgen: How does an AGV navigate? ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JIYOndxW9hc)
- [SwissLog CarryPick](https://www.swisslog.com/en-us/products-systems-solutions/asrs-automated-storage-retrieval-systems/boxes-cartons-small-parts-items/carrypick-storage-and-picking-system)
- [Toyota forklifts](https://toyota-forklifts.se/automatiserade-losningar/)
- [ILIAD Project](https://iliad-project.eu/)
- [GoPal](https://www.mobile-robots.de/87/fahrerlose-transportsysteme/amr-fuer-palettentransport?&wslanguage=en)
- (navigation_oru navigation stack by Örebro University)[https://github.com/aeksiri/forklift]
Specification of items
- [SLAM Navigation Compact Pallet Mover Nature Navigation Mini Forklift with Payload 1000KG](https://saintechrobotics.com/product/slam-navigation-compact-pallet-mover-nature-navigation-mini-forklift-with-payload-1000kg/)
- [Driverless Lifting System: Single & Double Scissor Lift | AGILOX](https://www.agilox.net/en/product/agilox-one/)
- [Wholesale Pallet Agv Trucks Jack Automated Autonomous Forklift](https://cnviboo.en.made-in-china.com/product/jZNfqtkUAypA/China-Wholesale-Pallet-Agv-Trucks-Jack-Automated-Autonomous-Forklift.html)
- [Volvo modular containers](https://www.volvogroup.com/content/dam/volvo-group/markets/master/suppliers/useful-links-and-documents-for-existing-suppliers/logistics-solutions/volvo-group-packaging-system/Wooden-Packaging_Pallets-Frames-and-Lids.pdf)
- [Volvo Emballage Specifications Volvo Group Packaging System](https://www.volvogroup.com/content/dam/volvo-group/markets/master/suppliers/useful-links-and-documents-for-existing-suppliers/logistics-solutions/volvo-group-packaging-system/Volvo-group-packaging-specifications_2015.pdf)
- [Freecad](https://www.freecad.org/)
- [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)
- [example worlds](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/tree/main/examples/worlds)
- [SDF format](http://sdformat.org/tutorials)
- [SDF tutorial](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials)
- [FreeCAD RobotCreator Workbench](https://github.com/maidenone/RobotCreator)

## Docker and VS Code setup
The Docker setup added by [Christoffer Johanesson (Dyno Robotics)](christoffer@dynorobotics.se), based on their experience working with Docker.

## Project maintainer

This project is currently maintained by [Hamid Ebadi](hamid.ebadi@gmail.com).

Commit message:

updated readme, credits and changelog. Added run_jackal bash file

CREDITS.md, after:

## Licenses and Credits

The majority of code in this repository comes from these [turtlebot3](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/turtlebot3.git) and [turtlebot3_simulations](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/turtlebot3_simulations) repositories (in `humble-devel` branch) with [*Apache-2.0 license*](LICENSE) and we continue using the same license:

The Turtlebot3 robot project belongs to [robotis.com](http://turtlebot3.robotis.com) and accessible in [git repository](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/). The authors and maintainers of the original packages that all credits go to are:

- [Darby Lim](thlim@robotis.com)
- [Pyo](pyo@robotis.com)
- [Will Son](willson@robotis.com)
- Ryan Shim

In October 2023, [Hamid Ebadi](hamid.ebadi@gmail.com) renamed the [package owner information and name](package.xml) for turtlebot3 projects to avoid dependency issues any nam ing confusion with the original packages and created independent packages for activities within the research project.

We also got inspired and used the skeleton code from these open source project and courses:
- https://github.com/ros-controls/gazebo_ros2_control
- https://github.com/renan028/forklift_robot
- https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/
- http://turtlebot3.robotis.com
- [Articulated Robotics](https://www.youtube.com/@ArticulatedRobotics)
- ["ROS2 for Beginners Level 2 - TF | URDF | RViz | Gazebo" Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo/)
- ["ROS2 Nav2 [Navigation 2 Stack] - with SLAM and Navigation" Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo/)
- [Visual Servoing in Gazebo grobot](https://github.com/nlamprian/grobot)

## Resources

- [Gazebo official video playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=48TX-XJ14Gs&list=PL6FI-gIL5jiEd4Hv-NIAuO2Cbbs27UpAM&index=1)
- [Getting Ready to Build Robots with ROS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2lIV3dRvHmQ&list=PLunhqkrRNRhYYCaSTVP-qJnyUPkTxJnBt)
- [Udemy course on ROS2 and Gazebo](https://www.udemy.com/course/ros2-tf-urdf-rviz-gazebo)
- [classcentral course](https://www.classcentral.com/course/youtube-simulating-robots-with-gazebo-and-ros-getting-ready-to-build-robots-with-ros-8-153333)
- [theconstructsim course](https://www.theconstructsim.com/robotigniteacademy_learnros/ros-courses-library/mastering-gazebo-simulator-online-course/)
- [Articulated Robotics](https://articulatedrobotics.xyz/)
- [ROS URDF](http://wiki.ros.org/urdf/XML)
- [FoxGlove studio (rviz alternative)](https://studio.foxglove.dev)
- [ROS2 Tutorials](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Tutorials.html)
- [aws-robomaker](https://github.com/aws-robotics/aws-robomaker-small-warehouse-world)
- [model for factory](https://app.gazebosim.org/OpenRobotics/fuel/models/Mecanum%20lift)
- [Tugbot in Warehouse](https://app.gazebosim.org/Kavya/fuel/worlds/Tugbot%20in%20Warehouse)
- [logistics in warehouse](https://github.com/belal-ibrahim/dynamic_logistics_warehouse)
- [aws-robomaker](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/robotics/fleet-and-multi-robot-simulations-in-aws-robomaker)
- [gazebo_worlds](https://dev.px4.io/v1.11_noredirect/en/simulation/gazebo_worlds.html#warehouse)
- [warehouse](https://app.gazebosim.org/MovAi)
- [forklift](https://github.com/renan028/forklift_robot)
- [Docker install guide](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

Other solutions:
- [Kollmorgen: How does an AGV navigate? ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JIYOndxW9hc)
- [SwissLog CarryPick](https://www.swisslog.com/en-us/products-systems-solutions/asrs-automated-storage-retrieval-systems/boxes-cartons-small-parts-items/carrypick-storage-and-picking-system)
- [Toyota forklifts](https://toyota-forklifts.se/automatiserade-losningar/)
- [ILIAD Project](https://iliad-project.eu/)
- [GoPal](https://www.mobile-robots.de/87/fahrerlose-transportsysteme/amr-fuer-palettentransport?&wslanguage=en)
- (navigation_oru navigation stack by Örebro University)[https://github.com/aeksiri/forklift]
Specification of items
- [SLAM Navigation Compact Pallet Mover Nature Navigation Mini Forklift with Payload 1000KG](https://saintechrobotics.com/product/slam-navigation-compact-pallet-mover-nature-navigation-mini-forklift-with-payload-1000kg/)
- [Driverless Lifting System: Single & Double Scissor Lift | AGILOX](https://www.agilox.net/en/product/agilox-one/)
- [Wholesale Pallet Agv Trucks Jack Automated Autonomous Forklift](https://cnviboo.en.made-in-china.com/product/jZNfqtkUAypA/China-Wholesale-Pallet-Agv-Trucks-Jack-Automated-Autonomous-Forklift.html)
- [Volvo modular containers](https://www.volvogroup.com/content/dam/volvo-group/markets/master/suppliers/useful-links-and-documents-for-existing-suppliers/logistics-solutions/volvo-group-packaging-system/Wooden-Packaging_Pallets-Frames-and-Lids.pdf)
- [Volvo Emballage Specifications Volvo Group Packaging System](https://www.volvogroup.com/content/dam/volvo-group/markets/master/suppliers/useful-links-and-documents-for-existing-suppliers/logistics-solutions/volvo-group-packaging-system/Volvo-group-packaging-specifications_2015.pdf)
- [Freecad](https://www.freecad.org/)
- [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)
- [example worlds](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/tree/main/examples/worlds)
- [SDF format](http://sdformat.org/tutorials)
- [SDF tutorial](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials)
- [FreeCAD RobotCreator Workbench](https://github.com/maidenone/RobotCreator)

Jackal Robot: 

The Clearpath Jackal Robot code is forked by Dyno Robotics from Clearpaths [jackal](https://github.com/jackal/jackal) Github. Branch foxy-devel is ported to dyno_humble, where changes for namespacing and a bringup package is added.

## Docker and VS Code setup
The Docker setup added by [Christoffer Johanesson (Dyno Robotics)](christoffer@dynorobotics.se), based on Dyno experience working with Docker.

## Project maintainer

This project is currently maintained by [Hamid Ebadi](hamid.ebadi@gmail.com).
